# Optimal-Paths
Codes for Quantum Optimal Control of a monitored harmonic oscillator. For any issues please feel free to email me at tatha.karma@gmail.com.

The corresponding article can be found at: https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08173


Initialization.py initializes a problem and creates a directory within Data folder for the specific problem (if such directory did not exist before). Saves the number of levels, initial and final states, time array, measurement collapse timescale, maximum strength of the parametric potential, relevant simple harmonic oscillator operators.


Eff_OP_Functions.py defines all relevant functions for the simulations.


Optimal_control_l1_theta_anneal.py finds optimal quadrature and parametric potential for a  problem defined through Initialization.py. The results are saved as hdf5 file titled Optimal_control_solution.


Control_Generation.py finds a sample quadrature and parametric potential for a  problem defined through Initialization.py. The results are saved as hdf5 file titled Alternate_control.


Optimal_control_plot.py plots the optimal path and control found through Optimal_control_l1_theta_anneal.py. The plot is saved the Plots folder with title OC_plot (see figs. 3, 6 and 8).


Alternate_Control_plot.py plots the sample control found through Control_Generation.py. The plot is saved the Plots folder with the title sample_control (see figs. 7(a), 5(a) and 9(a)).

Optimal_control_trajectory.py plots the optimal path and control found through Optimal_control_l1_theta_anneal.py and also plots a sample trajectory. The plot is saved the Plots folder with the title sample_trajectory (see fig. 4).

OP_histogram_mp.py generates histograms for a sample control and the optimal control for a 
problem defined by Initialization.py. For the script to work, Optimal_control_l1_theta_anneal.py and Control_Generation.py need to be run first. Histograms are saved as a Histogram.hdf5
file. 


Histogram_plot plots the histogram generated by OP_histogram_mp.py. The plot is saved the Plots folder with the title histogram (see figs. 7(b), 5(b) and 9(b)).



OP_optimize_JAX finds the optimal path of an oscillator under position measurements and compares the results with those found through the Gaussian state assumption  (see Karmakar et al., PRX Quantum 3, 010327 (2022)). The comparison (see fig. 2) makes sense only when the initial and final state are both Gaussian, with correct squeezing taken into account (see appendix I). 








